MIOSwiftTranspiler/README.md, before:

# Parent repo for our swift transpiler projects

* [Initial setup](#initial-setup)
* [Usage](#usage)

A parent repo for apple/swift fork & MIOJSLibs. Contains additional tests and scripts for transpiling native swift libs.

## **Initial setup:**

**Cloning this repo**

Clone with an additional flag `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/miolabs/MIOSwiftTranspiler.git`.
That ensures that it's cloned together with the submodule MIOJSLibs.

**Cloning the swift repo (separate for now) & building the executable**

We've decided not to include the swift submodule, because it was failing when running the
`./swift/utils/update-checkout --clone` for some reason. For now, you need to clone it *separately*.

First of all, you need to install cmake and ninja that the swift repo uses to build `brew install cmake ninja`.

Go to the *parent directory* of your repos (repo root) and run `mkdir swift-source && cd swift-source`. Then
clone our fork of the apple swift repo `git clone https://github.com/miolabs/swift.git`. Then run another command
that swift needs to work `./swift/utils/update-checkout --clone`.

Then you need to build the C++ executable. We need to additionally include the `--ios` flag, so that we can target UIKit.
Run `./swift/utils/build-script --release-debuginfo --ios`.

After the executable is built, you need to switch the branch `cd swift && git checkout ts-transpiler-synced`.
I'm trying to keep it up to date, so that the only different file is `lib/AST/ASTDumper.cpp`. That should help us
avoid problems related to building the executable (if the branch is not up to date, all hell breaks loose,
because the code and libs aren't in sync).

After switching the branch, you need to rebuild the executable with ninja one final time as described in Usage.

The initial setup is complete 🎉🎉.

## **Usage:**

**Rebuilding the executable after updating swift repo/changing a .cpp file**

```
cd ./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64
ninja swift
```

**Testing our transpiler - both local & github tests**

```
cd ./test
mocha
```

**Transpiling a given file**

```
./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64/bin/swiftc -dump-ast -O -sdk /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.14.sdk -F /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/Library/Frameworks example.swift
```

For UIKit:

```
./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64/bin/swiftc -dump-ast -O -sdk /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS12.2.sdk -target arm64-apple-ios12.2 -F /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/Library/Frameworks example.swift
```

**Outputting the AST tree (untouched ASTDumper)**

```
swiftc -dump-ast -O example.swift
```

**Building the transpiled swift libraries**

```
node ./include/build-bodies/build.js from-step-2
```

**Running templates/project**

```
cd ./MIOJSLibs/templates/project
```

Then to start the basic http server serving the files `npm start`.

To compile the project's ts - for the first time, run `npm run init`.
Later on you can just do `npm run tsc` to run the tsc compiler in watch mode.

The project needs to include two sets of libraries: MIOJSLibs and the one generated by the transpiler.

The first time and then any time transpiler gets updated, run `npm run build-swift-libs`

The first time and then any time MIOJSLibs get updated, run `npm run build-miojs-libs`

## **Refactoring MIOLibs to work with transpiled projects:**

**build miojslibs-optionals.json & miojslibs-renames.json**

```
node ./MIOSwiftTranspiler/include/build-bodies/build-miojslibs.js
```

**generate Libs/UIKit/dist-swift-transpiler folder (with UIKit.web.js)**

```
ts-node  --disableWarnings ./MIOSwiftTranspiler/include/build-bodies/refactor-miojslibs.ts
```

**generate mio-uikit-web.js**

```
cd Libs/UIKit && npm run build-web-dev-transpiler
```

Commit message:

added type declaration to make Demo1 work + more convenient way to automatically refactor Javi's libs

MIOSwiftTranspiler/README.md, after:

# Parent repo for our swift transpiler projects

* [Initial setup](#initial-setup)
* [Usage](#usage)

A parent repo for apple/swift fork & MIOJSLibs. Contains additional tests and scripts for transpiling native swift libs.

## **Initial setup:**

**Cloning this repo**

Clone with an additional flag `git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/miolabs/MIOSwiftTranspiler.git`.
That ensures that it's cloned together with the submodule MIOJSLibs.

**Cloning the swift repo (separate for now) & building the executable**

We've decided not to include the swift submodule, because it was failing when running the
`./swift/utils/update-checkout --clone` for some reason. For now, you need to clone it *separately*.

First of all, you need to install cmake and ninja that the swift repo uses to build `brew install cmake ninja`.

Go to the *parent directory* of your repos (repo root) and run `mkdir swift-source && cd swift-source`. Then
clone our fork of the apple swift repo `git clone https://github.com/miolabs/swift.git`. Then run another command
that swift needs to work `./swift/utils/update-checkout --clone`.

Then you need to build the C++ executable. We need to additionally include the `--ios` flag, so that we can target UIKit.
Run `./swift/utils/build-script --release-debuginfo --ios`.

After the executable is built, you need to switch the branch `cd swift && git checkout ts-transpiler-synced`.
I'm trying to keep it up to date, so that the only different file is `lib/AST/ASTDumper.cpp`. That should help us
avoid problems related to building the executable (if the branch is not up to date, all hell breaks loose,
because the code and libs aren't in sync).

After switching the branch, you need to rebuild the executable with ninja one final time as described in Usage.

The initial setup is complete 🎉🎉.

## **Usage:**

**Rebuilding the executable after updating swift repo/changing a .cpp file**

```
cd ./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64
ninja swift
```

**Testing our transpiler - both local & github tests**

```
cd ./test
mocha
```

**Transpiling a given file**

```
./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64/bin/swiftc -dump-ast -O -sdk /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/SDKs/MacOSX10.14.sdk -F /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/Library/Frameworks example.swift
```

For UIKit:

```
./swift-source/build/Ninja-RelWithDebInfoAssert/swift-macosx-x86_64/bin/swiftc -dump-ast -O -sdk /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/iPhoneOS.platform/Developer/SDKs/iPhoneOS12.2.sdk -target arm64-apple-ios12.2 -F /Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer/Platforms/MacOSX.platform/Developer/Library/Frameworks example.swift
```

**Outputting the AST tree (untouched ASTDumper)**

```
swiftc -dump-ast -O example.swift
```

**Building the transpiled swift libraries**

```
node ./include/build-bodies/build.js from-step-2
```

**Running templates/project**

```
cd ./MIOJSLibs/templates/project
```

Then to start the basic http server serving the files `npm start`.

To compile the project's ts - for the first time, run `npm run init`.
Later on you can just do `npm run tsc` to run the tsc compiler in watch mode.

The project needs to include two sets of libraries: MIOJSLibs and the one generated by the transpiler.

The first time and then any time transpiler gets updated, run `npm run build-swift-libs`

The first time and then any time MIOJSLibs get updated, run `npm run build-miojs-libs`

## **Refactoring MIOLibs to work with transpiled projects:**

**build miojslibs-optionals.json & miojslibs-renames.json**

miojslibs-optionals.json is a list of types that are optionals in native UIKit; we're looking for occurrences of these
in Javi's libs and compiling a list of these, so that we know what to refactor in the next step.

```
node ./MIOSwiftTranspiler/include/build-bodies/build-miojslibs.js
```

**generate mio-uikit-web.js**

This actually goes through the ts code and refactors it, by adding `_injectIntoOptional(...)` and `...[0]`.
At the end it produces a mio-uikit-web.js, just like `npm run build-web-dev` would

```
cd Libs/UIKit && npm run build-web-dev-transpiler
```
